.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2011, Gordon D. Carrie. All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
.\" A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
.\" HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
.\" PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
.\" LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\" SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" Please address questions and feedback to dev0@trekix.net
.\" 
.\" $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2011/11/28 16:43:52 $
.\"
.TH angle 3 "angle application"
.SH NAME
angle \- angle application
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBangle\fP \fIcommand\fP [\fIcommand_options ...\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBangle\fP application manipulates angles on the plane and sphere.

In this context, angles az1 and az2 refer to azimuth, a.k.a. longitude or phi, and
elev1 and elev2 refer to elevation, also known as latitude or theta.

Angles are measured in radians by default, or if environment variable
\fBANGLE_UNIT\fP is set to \fBRADIAN\fP.  Angles are measured in degrees if
environment variable \fBANGLE_UNIT\fP is set to \fBDEGREE\fP.

The \fIcommand\fP argument determines \fBangle\fP's behavior.
\fIcommand\fP must be one of the following.
.TP
\fBangle\fP \fBaz_wrap\fP \fIaz\fP \fIaz0\fP 
Prints a value that equals \fIaz\fP\ +\ i\ *\ \fBpi\fP for some integer i, and that
is in the interval [\fIaz0\fP\ -\ \fBpi\fP\ /\ 2,\ \fIaz0\fP\ +\ \fBpi\fP\ /\ 2).
.TP
\fBangle\fP \fBelev_wrap\fP \fIelev\fP
Prints the elevation reached by going \fIelev\fP radians north of the plane
in which \fIelev\fP\ =\ \fB0\fP (the Equator).
.TP
\fBangle\fP \fBgc_dist\fP \fIaz1\fP \fIelev1\fP \fIaz2\fP \fIelev2\fP
Prints the great circle distance from (\fIaz1\fP,\ \fIelev1\fP) to
(\fIaz2\fP,\ \fIelev2\fP).
.TP
\fBangle\fP \fBgc_dirn\fP \fIaz1\fP \fIelev1\fP \fIaz2\fP \fIelev2\fP
Prints the azimuth from (\fIaz1\fP,\ \fIelev1\fP) to (\fIaz2\fP,\ \fIelev2\fP).
.TP
\fBangle\fP \fBgc_step\fP [\fIaz\fP \fIelev\fP \fIdir\fP \fIdist\fP]
Prints the azimuth and elevation of the point in direction \fIdir\fP and
distance \fIdist\fP along a great circle from point (\fIaz\fP,\ \fIelev\fP).

If \fIaz\fP \fIelev\fP \fIdir\fP \fIdist\fP are not given on the command line,
values are read from standard input.  There will be one line of output for
every four values read in.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBangle_lib\fP (3), \fBprintf\fP (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gordon Carrie (dev0@trekix.net)
